From Gelman and Vehtari (2021) we select the computer intensive statistical method of bootstrapping and simulation-based inference. Bootstrapping is a resampling technique used to estimate the sampling distribution of a statistic by repeatedly resampling from the observed data with replacement. This allows for estimating the sample distribution of a statistic (in this case we will focus on mean and confidence intervals) without making any assumptions about the underlying distribution of the data.
  
In R, we can install the package "boot" to perform bootstrapping on some randomly generated sample data. This only takes one line (see line 18 on boot.R) to perform the bootstrapping and another line (see line 29 on boot.R) to calculate the bootstrap confidence interval.

In Go, the procedure is a bit more complex, but it rewards us with a significant performance boost. The file boot.go develops a bootstrapping procedure akin to the R program with the same number of bootstrap resamples and confidence interval calculation. But we add much more. The bootstrapping process is parallelized using goroutines to take advantage of multi-core processors and speed up the computation. If we want to run benchmarks, execute 'go test -bench=.' in the terminal. An alternate way to measure CPU time is to use '-cpuprofile' also.

So, comparing the final R and Go implementations using the same input data is quite simple since there are measurement features in both of the Go. It takes the Go program about 300 microseconds to create a confidence interval from the bootstrapped data, while the R code was about 5000 microseconds. So, we conclude that using the 'boot' R package is not the best use of CPU memory. In fact, the Go implementation using just goroutines seems to work just fine.

With all the above information, it seems proper to advise the research consultancy that Go is a valid replacement for R in cases of bootstrapping. The parallelization can help the organization scale up and efficiently peform bootstrapping on much larger scales than R provides. In fact, the functions in boot.go can generalize and even handle real world data. The Google Cloud Platform (GCP) may be the best IaS infrastructure because it allows for serverless execution of Go code and virtual machines for hosting Go applications. It provides $300 in free credits and AI recommendations to optimize cost once subscribed. With the significant performance benefit from using Go code, it may be advisable for the team to move away from the free R platform and use a more industry friendly IaS service to boost efficiency.
